
Models
------

In Slycat™, models combine analysis and visualization.  Slycat™ provides three different types of models: Canonical Correlation 
Analysis (CCA), Parameter Space, and Time Series.  The heart of every model is a data table.  For each model type, there are 
predefined sets of linked views that provide different representations of the analysis results.  Generally, the visualization 
for each model consists of three different representations, each showing the ensemble at a different level of abstraction.  The 
highest-level view seeks to display the ensemble in a holistic manner.   It seeks to show what high-level behaviors or trends 
can be seen across most, if not all, of the simulation runs.   Slycat™ currently provides views showing correlations between 
inputs and outputs, or similarities between results.  The intermediate-level view presents individually distinguishable runs in 
the context of the group, showing how well each member aligns with the high-level view of shared ensemble traits.  The low-level 
view enables you to drill down to the raw data values, both to input parameters and to the results from individual runs.

Each model has a *Name*, a *Marking*, and an optional *Description*.  Marking choices are defined as part of the server 
configuration, so they are specific to the institution that hosts the server.  The intent is for Slycat™ to facilitate clear 
labeling of data sensitivity through explicit choice of marking.  The marking appears as part of the model description on the 
Project page list, plus it is shown in both header and footer bars when visualizing the model.

Creating Models
===============

Models are created by clicking the green *Create* button from within a project page and selecting one of the model types from 
the dropdown list.  The information needed to create a model varies depending on which model you choose, so a popup dialog 
specific to the selected model will step you through entering the necessary information for that type (the details for each are 
covered below).  Model creation can be aborted at any stage by clicking the *X* button in the upper right corner of the popup.


.. figure:: Figure7.png
   :align: center
   
   **Figure 7:** *Create* **dropdown list of model choices, as seen from a project page.**

Editing Models
==============

Clicking on the yellow *Edit* button on a model page and selecting Name Model from the dropdown list allows you to change the 
model *Name, Description,* and *Marking*.  A *Name Model* dialog will popup with the current model information.  Click 
*Save Changes* to modify the model description on the server, or click the *X* button in the upper right of the popup to abort 
the operation.

.. figure:: Figure8.png
   :align: center
   
   **Figure 8:** *Edit* **dropdown list, as seen from a model page.**

Reset Model
===========

As you interact with a model and change various aspects of the visualization, Slycat™ keeps track of the current model state.  
If you leave that model and return to it later, Slycat™ will resume with the model rendered according to the most recent 
configuration state.  Note that this is only true if you are returning to a model on the same computer using the same browser 
that you previously used to view it.  However, sometimes you might want to start over with the default settings to produce the 
initial visualization.  Clicking on the yellow *Edit* button on a model page and selecting *Reset Model* from dropdown list will 
return the model state to its initial configuration.

Deleting Models
===============

To remove a model and ALL ITS DATA, click the red *Delete* button from within the model page of the model that you wish to 
delete.  Select *Delete Model* from the dropdown.  Model deletion is an irreversible operation, so deletion requires 
confirmation through a popup asking if you really want to delete that model.  Press the red Delete Model button to confirm 
deletion, or click the *X* button in the upper right of the popup to abort the operation and keep the model.

View Regions
============

The inner part of each model’s visualization is subdivided into several views or regions, each separated from adjacent regions 
by a thick gray line.  As you move the mouse over one of these region dividers, a double-headed arrow cursor perpendicular to 
the divider replaces the normal arrow cursor, the line extent (all but a darker gray center section) highlights in yellow, and 
the tooltip *Resize* pops up.  If you click and drag the divider while this is enabled, the divider will move until you release 
it, resizing the regions on either side to reflect proportional changes created by the new divider location.  The divider can be 
dragged to the very edge, effectively hiding the view.  

Alternately, if you move the mouse over the darker center section of a divider, the center section highlights in yellow, the 
icon become a hand with a pointing finger, and the tooltip *Close* appears.  Clicking the mouse button now will collapse one of 
the two adjacent regions.  It collapses the region that is closer to the edge of the browser window.  Clicking a second time on 
that same divider (now positioned along the edge of the model visualization) will restore the previous layout.

Download Data Table |Download|
===================

.. |Download| image:: DownloadIcon.png

Since data tables are at the core of each model type, all models provide a table download operation.  The download can take one 
of several forms: download the entire table, download only selected items, or download only visible items.  As will be described 
later (see **Selecting Points and Filter**), selection and filtering can be used to divide the data into sets using two 
approaches, either through highlighting or through visibility.  Highlighting and visibility are independently defined sets, so 
selected items are not necessarily visible.

This functionality can be used to download a table or a table subset to your desktop, which can then be used to generate a new 
model.  For example, if you had an ensemble where some of the runs failed to terminate properly, you could filter those runs out 
and download the subset of runs that finished correctly.  Then you could use that subset to generate new models where the failed 
runs are not biasing the analysis results.  Or alternately, you could download the subset that failed and use that table to 
create a Parameter Space model to explore what the failures have in common.

Color Themes
============

Color is used extensively in Slycat™ to encode information of various types.  In the table views that appear within each model, 
green columns are associated with input variables, lavender designates output variables, and unspecified variables are not 
colored (they are rendered using an off-white).

.. figure:: Figure9.png
   :align: center
   
   **Figure 9: Dropdown list of color theme choices from the** *Colors* **button.**

Slycat™ provides a set of predefined color themes, which are individually assigned to each model.  A color theme consists of a 
bundled scatterplot background color and color palette for mapping numeric values to color-coded objects in Slycat™ views.  
Below the Navbar on the model page, there is an additional row of model-specific buttons.  To change the current color theme, 
click the *Colors* button.  As shown in Figure 9, there are four color themes available in the dropdown:  *Night, Day, Rainbow 
Night,* and *Rainbow Day*.  *Night* is the default choice.  *Night* has a gray background and uses a diverging palette that maps 
low values to blue and high values to red, transitioning through white for values in the middle of the range [#]_.  *Day* has a 
white background and a similar blue to red mapping, though the palette is slightly shifted to transition through gray instead of 
white to enable you to distinguish points in the middle of the range from the background.  *Rainbow Night* has a gray background 
and a conventional rainbow palette.  *Rainbow Day* has a white background and a conventional rainbow palette.  Although we 
provide *Rainbow* themes, we discourage their use since color order in the middle of the range is not intuitive.  

.. rubric:: Footnotes

.. [#] Moreland, K., Diverging Color Maps for Scientific Visualization.  Advances in Visual Computing, vol. 5876, pp. 92-103.  Springer, Berlin (2009).
